.TH FCL 5 "30 March 2000" "AVERTEC" "Libraries"

.SH NAME
.TP 10
FCL
\- Transistor net-list pattern-matching library

.so man1/avt_origin.1

.SH DESCRIPTION
A static library which allows the transistor net-list disassembler YAGLE to deal
with unusual gate structures, for example complex latches or analog circuit blocks
such as differential amplifiers. In order to accomplish this, the user must provide
a set of transistor net-lists, annotated with a number of predefined types,
together with the corresponding behavioural descriptions.

.SH USAGE
YAGLE calls the FCL library if the '-fcl' option is specified. The transistor
net-lists (in extended spice format), and the behavioural descriptions 
should be placed in a dedicated directory, whose access path is
specified by the environment variable FCL_LIB_PATH. The list of net-lists to be identified is
specified in a special library file located in the same directory, whose name is
specified in the additional environment variable FCL_LIB_NAME.

.SH NET-LIST FORMAT
The format for the transistor net-list is a standard flat spice SUBCKT contained
in a file with the '.spi' extension. However, a number of special extensions are
recognised. These are accomodated as spice comments, lines commencing with an
asterisk. The asterisk is followed by a space and one of the following directives,
together with parameters (non case-sensitive) :-
.br
.TP 7
.B NETTYPE <index> <typemask>
Associates the types indicated in <typemask> to any signal in the main circuit
corresponding to the signal in the searched for net-list identified by <index>.
Predefined tyes are :-
.TP 20
     NET_LATCH
Signal corresponds to a latch memory-point.
.TP 20
     NET_FLIPFLOP
Signal corresponds to a flip-flop memory-point.
.TP 20
     NET_MASTER
Signal corresponds to the master memory-point of a flip-flop.
.TP 20
     NET_SLAVE
Signal corresponds to the slave memory-point of a flip-flop.
.TP 20
     NET_MEMSYM
Signal corresponds to one side of a symmetric memory.
.TP 20
     NET_RS
Signal corresponds to one side of an RS bistable.
.TP 20
     NET_VDD
Signal corresponds to an alimentation.
.TP 20
     NET_VSS
Signal corresponds to ground.
.TP 20
     NET_BLOCKER
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can go through the signal.
.TP 20
     NET_STOP
Cannot exploit logic beyond this point for functional analysis in YAGLE.
.TP 7
.B TRANSTYPE <name> <typemask>
Associates the types indicated in <typemask> to any transistor in the main circuit
corresponding to the transistor in the searched for net-list identified by <name>.
Predfefined tyes are :-
.TP 20
     TRANS_BLEEDER
Transistor corresponds to a bleeder.
.TP 20
     TRANS_FEEDBACK
Transistor corresponds to a feedback transistor of a memory-point.
.TP 20
     TRANS_COMMAND
Transistor corresponds to a command transistor of a memory-point, i.e driven by command signal.
.TP 20
     TRANS_NOT_FUNCTIONAL
Transistor should be ignored when calculating gate functionality.
.TP 20
     TRANS_BLOCKER
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can contain this transistor unless it is the first transistor of the branch.
.TP 20
     TRANS_UNUSED
No branch of a cone (see man yagle) can contain this transistor.
.TP 20
     TRANS_SHORT
The transistor is considered short-circuited, the gate signal no longer contributes to the list of inputs.
.TP 20
     TRANS_MATCHSIZE
The transistor is only matched if the dimensions correspond exactly or within a given tolerance (see FCL configuration).
.TP 20
     TRANS_SHARE
The transistor can be matched by several patterns.

.SH
The <typemask> parameter is made up of a list of one or more of the predefined types, 
separated by the vertical bar '|' character. 
.TP 7
.B CMPUP <name> ... <name>
is a mutual exclusion directive indicating that one and only one of the signals or ports can be at logic one.
.SH
.TP 7
.B CMPDN <name> ... <name>
is a mutual exclusion directive indicating that one and only one of the signals or ports can be at logic zero.
.TP 7
.B MUXUP <name> ... <name>
is a mutual exclusion directive indicating that at most one of the signals or ports can be at logic one.
.TP 7
.B MUXDN <name> ... <name>
is a mutual exclusion directive indicating that at most one of the signals or ports can be at logic zero.
.TP 7
.B NETOUTPUT <name> [level]
This directive allows the user to orient transistors, by associating a level with a signal identifying
the drain or source terminal of a transistor. If no level is specified, the level is implicitely 1.
Transistors are then oriented from higher level signals or standard signals to 
lower level signals. This directive is usefull to avoid false branch construction, especially 
when dealing with pass-transistors.
The NETOUTPUT directive acts in the same way as the DIROUT directive in the information file (see man inf).

.SH
Directives should be included within the .SUBCKT and .ENDS spice statements.
.SH BEHAVIOUR FORMAT
The behavioural description is specified in ALLIANCE '.vbe' format (see man vbe).
A behavioural file must be provided for each net-list, however the description can
be either a complete bahavioural description or specify only the external interface.
In both cases the type must be indicated in the library file.

.SH LIBRARY FILE
This file is a simple text file containing the list of net-lists to be identified.
Each line of the file a single name followed by a space and a character ('A' or 'P')
indicating the type of the behavioural description (complete or interface only). The character 'A' or 'P'
may be followed by a matching priority order.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 7
.B FCL_LIB_PATH
Indicates the access path to the directory containing the user-defined cell
library used if the
.B \-fcl
option is set. The default is a subdirectory
.B /cells
in
.B MBK_WORK_LIB
.TP 7
.B FCL_LIB_NAME
The name of the file (located in
.B FCL_LIB_PATH
) containing the list of cells in the user-defined cell library used if the
.B \-fcl
option is set. The default is
.B LIBRARY.

.so man1/avt_bug_report.1

.SH SEE ALSO
.br
yagle(1)


