.TH TAS 1 "30 March 2000" "AVERTEC" "AVERTEC CAD Tools"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBtma\fP \- A Timing Model Abstractor

.so man1/avt_origin.1

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
tma \fI[options] [tas options] file \fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTMA\fP is a timing characterization tool for CMOS circuits and cell
libraries. 
TMA performs the calculation of timing constraints on CMOS circuits interface, 
i.e. setup times, hold times, access times and insertion delays. TMA calculations
are based on TAS delays, and therefore
can be performed on a flat or hierarchical, cell based or transistor
based netlist. 
Timing constraints are computed either in the form of single delays, 
or in the form of 1D or 2D
lookup tables. When used for cell libraries, TMA performs the
functional characterization of the cells.

.PP

.SH INPUT FILES
.PP
\fBTMA\fP includes the timing engine TAS and therefore accepts any format
of netlist accepted by TAS (see \fBtas(1)\fP). TMA can also works on 
previous results of stand alone TAS, by reading files in TTX, DTX and STM
formats.

.PP

.SH OUTPUT FILES
.PP
\fBTMA\fP writes characterization's results in Timing Library Format (TLF),
versions 3 and 4, Liberty format version 2.1 and TTX format.

.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.PP

\fBTMA\fP accepts any option accepted by TAS (see \fBtas(1)\fP).
In addition to TMA's options, usefull TAS' options for characterization 
are detailed below.

Options may appear in  any  order before or after the optional
input filename.

.TP 10
\fI-dtx\fP
With this option, timing constraints computations are performed on
a DTX (detailed perfmodule) file.
When neither the \fB-ttx\fP option nor the \fB-dtx\fP option is set, TMA searches for
a netlist on which the delay calculations will be performed. The netlist's
format must be specified on the command line with the \fB-in=format\fP option.

.TP 10
\fI-fin=file\fP
When more than one cell is to be given to TMA for constraints 
computations, the list of cell files must be specified in an input file.
For instance, the \fB-fin\fP allows the user to specify the list
of cells to characterize in a library. The cell name must be followed by
a behavioral directive :
.br
      - W : \fBTMA\fP automatically generates a behavioral description.
.br
      -  R  : \fBTMA\fP reads from the disk a behavioral description to include
in the output file. The format of the behavioral description is set with the
environment variable BEH_IN_FORMAT.
.br
      -  T  : \fBTMA\fP doesn't generate any behavioral description.
.br
If no output name is specified
(using the \fB-lib\fP option), the name of the input list file is
used as output name, suffixed with the output format.
The \fB-fin\fP option is not compatible with the specification of
a file on the command line.

.TP 10
\fI-i\fP
This option makes \fBTMA\fP read the \fBinf\fP file. This
file has the same name than the \fIroot_file\fP
with the \fBinf\fP extension. It may contain characterization
slopes and capacitances, clock and asynchron signals specifications,
mutual
exclusion conditions on ports of the circuit for
the functional analysis process
as well as information about signal renaming, path elimination, case analysis,
precharged signals, intermediary points, path selection,
factorizing points and interconnecting analysis (hierarchical mode)
(see \fB-f\fP option, \fBinf(5)\fP and \fByagle(1)\fP).

.TP 10
\fI-lib=name\fP
This option allows the naming of the output file or output library.
This name is always suffixed with the output format.

.TP 10
\fI-lut[=n]\fP
This option allows TAS to compute lookup tables instead
of single delays. The sizes of the lookup tables are optional.
If characterization slopes and capacitances are specified in
the \fBinf\fP file, the lookup tables take the specified sizes,
even if n is set on the command line.
If no characterization slopes and capacitances are specified,
and if n is set on the command line, the size is 2n+1. 
If no characterization slopes and capacitances are specified,
and if no n is set on the command line, the default size is 5.

.TP 10
\fI-mod=w\fP
To be used only if a cell name is given on the command line. This option
is equivalent to the W directive in the input file given with the \fB-fin\fP option.
It allows \fBTMA\fP to automatically generate a behavioral description of the cell.

.TP 10
\fI-mod=r\fP
To be used only if a cell name is given on the command line. This option
is equivalent to the R directive in the input file given with the \fB-fin\fP option.
It allows \fBTMA\fP to read a behavioral description of the cell, to include in the
output file. The behavioral description file format is set with the environment variable
BEH_IN_FORMAT.

.TP 10
\fI-mod=t\fP
To be used only if a cell name is given on the command line. This option
is equivalent to the T directive in the input file given with the \fB-fin\fP option.
With this option \fBTMA\fP doesn't generate any behavioral description of the cell.

.TP 10
\fI-mrg=margin\fP
This option allows the user to specify a margin in the timing
constraints calculations. This margin is systematically added to
setup times, access times and insertion delays, and systematically 
substracted to hold times. The unity is the picosecond.

.TP 10
\fI-nac\fP
With this option \fBTMA\fP does not perform the automatic detection
of clocks (which is the default). The clocks must then be specified 
in the  \fBinf\fP file, and the \fB-i\fP option must be set.

.TP 10
\fI-nbh\fP
With this option, no behavioral description is read by nor computed by \fBTMA\fP, 
therefore no behavioral description will be generated.

.TP 10
\fI-format=lib\fP
The output file is written in the Liberty 2.1 format.
When a list of cells is given as input, every characterized cells are
written in the same file.

.TP 10
\fI-format=tlf3\fP
The output file is written in the Timing Library Format (TLF) 3.0 format.
When a list of cells is given as input, every characterized cells are
written in the same file.

.TP 10
\fI-format=tlf4\fP
The output file is written in the Timing Library Format (TLF) 4.1 format.
When a list of cells is given as input, every characterized cells are
written in the same file.

.TP 10
\fI-format=ttx\fP
The output files are written in the TTX format.
The TTX format is not a library format, and can only represent one
cell by file, therefore, when a list of cells is given as input, each
characterized cell is written in a separate file.

.TP 10
\fI-sfx=suffix\fP
This option allows TMA to suffix the names of the output files, and
the names of the characterized cells.

.TP 10
\fI-ttx\fP
With this option, timing constraints computations are performed on
a TTX (general perfmodule) file.
When neither the \fB-ttx\fP or \fB-dtx\fP option is set, TMA seaches for
a netlist on which perform the delay calculations. This netlist's
format must be specified on the command line with the \fB-in=format\fP option.

.TP 10
\fI-v\fP
TMA runs in verbose mode.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
     hitas(1), xtas(1), etas(1), yagle(1), dtv(5), ttv(5), inf(5), fcl(5)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.so man1/avt_bug_report.1


