.TH TTX 5 "30 March 1000" "AVERTEC" "File Formats"

.SH NAME
.PP
\fBttx\fP \- The timing analyzer \fBtas\fP report : 'general perfmodule' format.

.so man1/avt_origin.1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

The timing analyzer \fBtas\fP reports all critical
 paths between two reference points in
a file, named 'general perfmodule'. The file has the extension .ttx.
This is a highly compact
text format suitable for flat and hierarchical analysis. The content is best
visualized by ETAS or XTAS. 
The 'detailled perfmodul' has the extension .dtx.

.SH ARTICLES
.PP

The 'general perfmodule' contains several articles and is terminated by the
\fBG\fP article. 

.TP 10
\fBInformation Header\fP
.PP

General information is given in a single \fBH\fP article
at the beginning of the file.

.RS 5
.PP
H \fItool vers name techno techno_vers inslope outcapa hierarchy_level ( day month year hour minute second );\fP 
.RE

.TP 10
\fBInstances\fP
.PP

Instances in a hierarchical figure are given in \fBX\fP articles :

.RS 5
.PP
X \fIfigure_name instance_name;\fP
.RE

.TP 10
\fBExternal Conectors\fP
.PP

External connectors are given in \fBC\fP articles : 

.RS 5
.PP
C \fItype index name (capa rupmax rdownmax fupmax fdownmax rupmin rdownmin fupmin fdownmin); \fP
.RE

.PP
The \fBtype\fP defines the connector direction and whether it is the command
of a register or a precharge. It can be one of : 

.RS 5
.TP 5 
\fII\fP
for an input connector

.TP 5
\fIO\fP
for an output connector

.TP 5
\fIB\fP
for a bidirectionnal connector

.TP 5
\fIT\fP
for a transceiver connector

.TP 5
\fIZ\fP
for a high-impedance connector

.TP 5
\fIX\fP
for an unconnected connector

.TP 5
\fIIQ\fP
input connector used as command for register or precharge

.TP 5
\fIBQ\fP
output connector reused as input to command register or precharge.
.RE

.PP
The electrical parameters given for each connector are :

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIcapa\fP
capacitance attached to connector

.TP 5
\fIrupmax\fP
maximum resistance to Vdd

.TP 5
\fIrdownmax\fP
maximum resistance to Vss

.TP 5
\fIfupmax\fP
maximum rising-edge slope

.TP 5
\fIfdownmax\fP
maximum falling-edge slope

.TP 5
\fIrupmin\fP
minimum resistance to Vdd

.TP 5
\fIrdownmin\fP
minimum resistance to Vss

.TP 5
\fIfupmin\fP
minimum rising-edge slope

.TP 5
\fIfdownmin\fP
minimum falling-edge slope
.RE

.TP 10
\fBInternal Connectors\fP
.PP

Internal connectors are given in \fBN\fP articles:

.RS 5
.PP
C \fItype index name (index_extcon capa rupmax rdownmax fupmax fdownmax rupmin rdownmin fupmin fdownmin);\fP
.RE

.PP
The \fItype\fP defines wether it is the command of a register or a precharge.
.br
It can be one of:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fII\fP
not used as command for register or precharge

.TP 5
\fIQ\fP
used as command for register or precharge
.RE

.PP
The electrical parameters are the same as those for external connectors.
The \fIindex_extcon\fP field specifies the
index of the associated external connector. 

.TP 10
\fBRegister or Precharge Commands\fP
.PP

Commands of registers and precharges are given in \fIQ\fP articles : 

.RS 5
.PP
Q \fItype index name (cmd1 cmd2 ... );\fP
.RE

.PP
The \fBtype\fP can be one of the following : 

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIC\fP
for an external connector command (also an external connector)

.TP 5
\fIN\fP
For an internal connector command (also an internal connector)

.TP 5
\fIE\fP
For an external command (extremity of an extenral path)

.TP 5
\fII\fP
For an internal command (not the extremity of an external path)
.RE

.PP
The list of command names in brackets is the list of
commands lower down in the hierarchy which are internal
or external commands and which have been replaced by
this command at the current hierarchical level. Thus the
command attribute of an arc can be defined at each level in
the hierarchy.

.TP 10
\fBRegisters\fP
.PP

Registers are given in \fBL\fP articles : 

.RS 5
.PP
L \fItype index name (cmd_index1 cmd_type1 cmd_index2 cmd_type2 ... ); \fP
.RE

.PP
The \fBtype\fP is XY where x can be L, F, R or S and Y can be C, N, E, I :

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIL\fP
stand for Latch

.TP 5
\fIF\fP
stand for Flip-Flop


.TP 5
\fIR\fP
stabd for nand set reset latch

.TP 5
\fIS\fP
stand for nor set reset latch

.TP 5
\fIC\fP
for an external connector register (also an external connector)

.TP 5
\fIN\fP
For an internal connector register (also an internal connector)

.TP 5
\fIE\fP
For an external register (extremity of an extenral path)

.TP 5
\fII\fP
For an internal register (not the extremity of an external path)
.RE

.PP
With this notation, a \fBtype\fP LI is an internal level-triggered register.
.PP
The list in brackets is the list of command events which
allow the opening of a level-triggered register or the
writing into an edge-triggered register. The \fBindex\fP
represents the index of the command signal. 
.br
The type can be one of : 

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIU\fP
for a rising-edge event


.TP 5
\fID\fP
for a falling-edge event

.TP 10
\fBPrecharged Signals\fP
.PP

Precharged signals are given in \fBR\fP articles : 

.RS 5
.PP
R \fItype index name (cmd_index1 cmd_type1 cmd_index2 cmd_type2 ... );\fP
.RE

.PP
the \fBtype\fP can be one of:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIC\fP
for an external connector precharge (also an external connector)

.TP 5
\fIN\fP
For an internal connector precharge (also an internal connector)

.TP 5
\fIE\fP
for an external precharge

.TP 5
\fII\fP
for an internal precharge
.RE

.TP 10
\fBBreak\fP
.PP

Breaks are given in \fBB\fP articles :

.RS 5
.PP
B \fPtype index name\fP

The \fBtype\fP can be one of:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIC\fP
for an external connector break (also an external connector)

.TP 5
\fIN\fP
For an internal connector break (also an internal connector)

.TP 5
\fIE\fP
For an external break (extremity of an extenral path)

.TP 5
\fII\fP
For an internal break (not the extremity of an external path)
.RE


.TP 10
\fBFactorization Points\fP
.PP

Factorization points are given in \fBI\fP articles :

.RS 5
.PP
I \fItype index name;\fP
.RE

.PP
The \fBtype\fP can be one of:

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIE
for an external factorization signal

.TP 5
\fII\fP
for an internal factorization signal
.RE

.TP 10
\fBFactorized Paths\fP
.PP

Factorized paths are represented by one of three
\fBpath_type\fP articles.
.br
These are : 

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIP\fP
for a factorized path which is only part
of paths internal to the figure.

.TP 5
\fIJ\fP
for a factorized path which is part of at
least one path external to the figure.

.TP 5
\fIT\fP
for a factorized path which has a
connector as an extremity.
.RE

.PP
The general syntax of these articles is :

.RS 5
.PP
path_type starttype start endtype end (
(cmd cmdtype (trs type delay slope elec))
( . . (. . . . .))
);
.RE

.PP
where the parameters represent :

.RS 5
.TP 5
\fIstarttype\fP
type of the signal at the start of
the path (C, N, Q, L, R, I, S).

.TP 5
\fIstart\fP
index of the start signal.

.TP 5
\fIendtype\fP
type of the signal at the end of the
path (C, N, Q, L, R, I, S, Z, O).
 
.TP 5
\fIend\fP
index of the end signal.

.TP 5
\fIcmd\fP
index of command if end is
register or precharge

.TP 5
\fIcmdtype\fP
type of event which activates
command (U or D).

.TP 5
\fItrs\fP
transition type (UU, DD, UD,DU).

.TP 5
\fItype\fP
delay type (SMAX, SMAX, HMAX, HMIN, AMAX, AMIN, IMAX, IMIN, MAX or MIN).
With SMAX and SMIN for set up, HMAX and HMIN for Hold , AMAX and AMIN for Acces,
IMAX and IMIN for interconnect and MAX and MIN for delay.


.TP 5
\fIdelay\fP
propagation delay.

.TP 5
\fIslope\fP
slope at end.

.TP 5
\fIelec\fP
one or two delay correction
parameters (T or D) with respect
to input slope if start is a
connector, or the output
capacitance if end is a connector. 
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
     tas(1),dtx(5)


.so man1/avt_bug_report.1

